Manhattan's real estate market is among the most expensive in the world.[38][39] Providing continuous 24/7 service and contributing to the nickname The City That Never Sleeps, the New York City Subway is the largest single-operator rapid transit system in the world with 472 passenger rail stations, and Penn Station in Midtown Manhattan is the busiest transportation hub in the Western Hemisphere.[40] The city has over 120 colleges and universities, including Columbia University, an Ivy League university routinely ranked among the world's top universities,[41] New York University, and the City University of New York system, the largest urban public university system in the nation. Anchored by Wall Street in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, New York City has been called both the world's leading financial and fintech center[42] and the most economically powerful city in the world,[43] and is home to the world's two largest stock exchanges by total market capitalization, the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq.[44][45]

The Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village, part of the Stonewall National Monument, is considered the historic epicenter of LGBTQ+ culture[46] and the birthplace of the modern gay rights movement.[47][48] New York City is the headquarters of the global art market, with numerous art galleries and auction houses collectively hosting half of the world's art auctions, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art is both the largest art museum and the most visited museum in the United States.[49] Governors Island in New York Harbor is planned to host a US$1 billion research and education center as a leader in the climate crisis.[50]
Chopin was born in Żelazowa Wola in the Duchy of Warsaw and grew up in Warsaw, which in 1815 became part of Congress Poland. A child prodigy, he completed his musical education and composed his earlier works in Warsaw before leaving Poland at the age of 20, less than a month before the outbreak of the November 1830 Uprising. At 21, he settled in Paris. Thereafter – in the last 18 years of his life – he gave only 30 public performances, preferring the more intimate atmosphere of the salon. He supported himself by selling his compositions and by giving piano lessons, for which he was in high demand. Chopin formed a friendship with Franz Liszt and was admired by many of his other musical contemporaries, including Robert Schumann.After a failed engagement to Maria Wodzińska from 1836 to 1837, he maintained an often troubled relationship with the French writer Aurore Dupin (known by her pen name George Sand). A brief and unhappy visit to Mallorca with Sand in 1838–39 would prove one of his most productive periods of composition. In his final years, he was supported financially by his admirer Jane Stirling, who also arranged for him to visit Scotland in 1848. For most of his life, Chopin was in poor health. He died in Paris in 1849 at the age of 39, probably of pericarditis aggravated by tuberculosis.